Before we start the show we have been following this world without linux series that the linux foundation has been putting out
We skipped a couple of episodes, but the last one that came through west this one. I think is a big deal
I think this is the one right so let's play a little bit of this
So this is that the world without linux episode 5 by the linux foundation
Hello world, this is Annie coming to you from the International Space Station
Follow me, and I'll take you on a little tour. Oh
Boy here we go again as you can see we're having a few computer glitches. They're probably running windows running windows
Through this door you'll see that
I believe it Houston we have a problem our pod bay doors won't open copy. This is Houston try asking super nice, maybe
This is embarrassing
Open the pod bay doors Hal
Please I'm sorry Annie. I'm afraid I can't do that
a world without linux and in a world without exploration
Listen, I'll upgrade your RAM and give you three bitcoins come on
Wow, I'd like that a world without linux is hard to imagine
Thanks to hundreds of thousands of individuals and companies who support linux
We don't have to learn more and help support linux today one small step for mankind
Hashtag world without linux all right, I think that's by far the best one yet. That was good
I enjoyed that one a lot, and you know what else I like linux in space yeah
This is Linux Unplugged episode 123 for December 15th, 2015
Welcome to Linux Unplugged your weekly linux talk show that already has your gift picked out. My name is Chris
My name is Wes. Hey there Wes guess what?
Big show. Oh big show today. My favorite 123 just it worked out great
We have some great friends of the show they're coming on to talk about their projects and what they have going on
Coming up towards the first half of the show. We're going to go through some major updates AMD huge new initiative
Huge and we're going to break it down for you right here on the show
I'm going to do a little bit of follow-up on my kde review, then we're going to get in and talk about ubi con
What is that? What is it? Why is it exciting and why can you actually possibly attend?
We'll discuss that and then later on in the show the Minecraft project has some big updates some official partnerships some nice hardware tweaks
So we'll talk to Ryan from the Minecraft project to get it right from the horse's mouth about what's new and then towards the end
of the show
Ladies and gentlemen I am happy to announce the eventual death of Google Docs
Libre office and own cloud have teamed up to bring us something we have all wanted for so long
We're talking about that plus own cloud has a new hardware partnership coming up that may put own cloud in the homes of the average
consumer a Western digital own cloud combo unit
That's not the interesting part though the interesting part is you can get the prototype in your home built around a Raspberry Pi running Linux
In the next couple of weeks, we'll tell you the information coming up in the show
Big show today West huge show. Yeah, it's very exciting. So let's kick it off
Let's bring in our virtual log time appropriate greetings mumble room
Listen to that. Oh boy. That is a showing right there. Hello everybody. Hello
Hey a couple of interesting things to get into real quick before we get into all the main content
as a couple of threads we've been following over the year here in Linux unplugged and
And one of them is my continued quest to get my freaking Librem 15 purism laptop
Where the F is it? I don't know but they do have a news update
Cubes OS will be shipping pre-installed on purism security focused Librem 13 laptop, which you won't get but if you did it'll be very secure
I oh boy. I don't I don't know what to say. So let's start with cubes OS
That's the security focused operating system that Snowden said back in November was his favorite distro of choice
He's really excited about it. And this week the laptop maker purism says they'll ship their privacy focused Librem 13 notebook with cubes pre-installed now
This is a distro that uses Zen to basically isolate each application into its own virtual machine and
It supports vert fedora Debian and Windows 7 VMs and probably a bone too because they'd be crazy not to I mean
How can you not right? Yeah, so
It is an interesting idea West you got this super security focused laptop. They got a little video here
I can play just a little bit to kind of give you an idea
13 by purism a 13.3 inch laptop computer built chip by chip to respect and protect your privacy chip by chip
You're ready and for you right now. You are vulnerable to adversaries stealing your personal data. I do not want that
The laptop's goal is to keep you safe
It marries the best software certified by security privacy and freedom experts with a slim and beautiful design
All right, so let's break it down. Here's the thing that I don't like about this
Two things right off the top of my head. Who's your target audience is your target audience the technical Linux user?
Who knows what the hell?
BIOS is and knows why a computer built around Linux is a good thing or is your audience the person going into Best Buy?
That's heard about cyber hacking from CNN
And and I honestly don't believe the second is their audience at all because the second is gonna be buying from name brands
They've actually heard of before just the way the markets worked for the last 30 years no change there because that's no change in consumer behavior
So this is obviously a product directed at Linux users, and that's why they're seeking the free software foundation certification
That's why they're working on really targeting Linux users
That's why they did a crowdfunding campaign because they know their audience is a technical audience and yet
They pedal this stupid shit like cubes OS not that cubes isn't a bad OS
But let's be honest if I'm your typical Linux user
I've been using Linux for a couple of years and now I recognize the value of having a Linux focus laptop that's designed well
I'm probably gonna want to run standard Linux distributions with standard Linux desktops
So I can do my everyday job
So first of all it doesn't really make a lot of sense to be investing in an operating system
And they had purism OS before now
They're doing cubes OS that doesn't make a lot of sense to me to begin with at this sales pitch
They're doing where you are constantly under attack now
You are vulnerable to adversary stealing your personal data for their game that's scare tactic to sell your product
Which isn't gonna work to Linux users because Linux users already know they're not vulnerable to that kind of stuff in nearly the same
Scale that we've already researched all of this. I mean yeah, they're target audience
So I I continue to not quite get who purism is targeting and I continue
after over a year in change and I honestly haven't looked because I will become enraged if I look but I paid the money and
I still in December of 2015 do not have my laptop
So what the hell how about you focus on shipping to the people that backed your project and you stop worrying about
Creating some custom super ultra secure environment because newsflash
You know what 90% of people are gonna do when they buy that laptop
They're gonna format install Ubuntu or some other distro. That's what's gonna happen, so I
I don't know wimpy
I want to hand it over to you to hear your thoughts
And I am I am I am now at a point now where I think maybe I've been scammed
maybe I'm never gonna get my laptop and and I don't understand why the project is focusing on these things and the way they talk makes
It sound more official than it really is and that makes me uncomfortable. I'm curious what you think if maybe I'm overreacting
No, so I'm gonna try and underreact because I've been very skeptical about purism for a very long time and
I
Don't want to
Sort of torpedo what they're trying to do because on the face of it. It's a good thing to do
That's why I back sell cell free and open source software in order to a better protect
Computer and and also to design really really nice custom built hardware for Linux
Yeah, but that's the first thing so the custom built hardware. That's simply not true. There's nothing custom about the
Librem computers. There are other OEMs that have been selling that hardware platform
To customers that have got them in their hands that have been using them for nearly a year
So that that whole chip chip to chip design thing
I don't buy it and the other thing is is that if it was chip to chip
Why would you choose chips that don't work with Linux like for example the Bluetooth adapter?
So if you're getting a Librem don't expect Bluetooth to work because there's no kernel driver for the Bluetooth chipset that they've chosen
Oh, that's little things like that
Oh don't expect the trackpad to work or maybe expect the trackpad to work because I was good enough to point them
at some source code for Linux kernel drivers, which by the way, they didn't contribute back to
To the to the originating sources. Oh
So there are there are things about purism that I'm not super enthusiastic about
and I've been testing PureOS over the last couple of days and maybe anyone out there who has
Purchased purchased backed. I'm not quite sure what the correct term is, you know
Purism needs to go and try PureOS out and decide whether that's the operating system that you're going to go with when when your laptop
Hopefully turns up
hmm
Yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't choose to run it as my day-to-day
Well, I guess you know on the surface you're right wimpy though. Your point is valid
I I really love the idea of something that is a genuine solution to some of the security problems
We have an application isolation
essentially protects you from application vulnerability
Assuming the Zen hypervisor and the kernel that it's all running under are secure. It's at least more isolation
But this wasn't something that was planned because there was no talk of using cubes a year ago
Suddenly, there's a big interview
With Edward Snowden about four weeks ago, and then a few weeks later purism are now working with cubes
And I'm not saying that technically that is not a bad a bad idea
I want to actually expand on your point there
Don't try and introduce in that into your first generation project that you've been planning and working on for the last 12 months
It's disingenuous
Go with what you've got now and work with cubes in your next iteration
Here's what it says in the Ars Technica article, which actually feels like rewriting history to me
Purism has worked closely with cubes developers since before the laptop manufacturers successful crowdfunding campaign
Really which raised a combined it goes into 80,000
I'm sorry 800 thousand dollars that they raised
Purism manufacturers own their motherboard and all of the chips are designed to run free software
They'll even also ships with hardware kill switches for camera microphones
Todd weaver purism founder who I've talked to many times personally says he has an uncompromised vision to offer free as in freedom laptops
Now they but see the way they talk about this is they and I'm sure it's great for cubes, too
And I I have massive respect for Joanna and everybody who works with cubes
Yes, I mean, I mean I deeply have a like some of the people I respect the most in in the industry, right?
But I and I'm not deterring
I'm not taking away from cubes at all because I think it is really cool
But what I don't buy into and what I am taking issue with is this sort of sales pitch in this Ars Technica article
I'm not blaming ours either because Todd's Todd is Todd's great to talk to
It basically says that they've been working with cubes since before
The the crowdfunding campaign was even successful. Well, if that's the case then why was there ever purism OS?
Why was that ever you haven't heard about this before? Yeah
It just doesn't it just doesn't add up
I'd love you know, and Todd has a has an open invitation by the way to come on the show
He's been on the show before living so unplugged. So
Todd if you'd like to come on explain it to me, especially somebody
Here's my understanding when I talked to Todd at OS con a year ago
He told me that he he personally knew where my laptop was and he personally knew I'd beginning in November
That was in person at OS con is what he told me face to face. So I it's December
It sounds like you need an update and I could really really use that laptop and I don't have the money to buy a new
One and yeah, Mark's you've been wanting to jump in on this. Go ahead
Yeah, I mean I've been kind of watching this in the background for a while and the feeling that I've always got from from
Librem is that they basically when they launched the crowdfunding campaign
They thought the problem is that no one is investing money in getting the the firmware
support that you need for these chips in in an open source way and all they needed was to raise the money and then they
Could get it all sorted and they'd have all of the the code you needed written or convince the manufacturers to write it
Yeah for them
but basically it's turned out that it's harder than that and now they're kind of
Floundering a bit and trying to save face and not say no, it's impossible
They're still putting out these videos and saying oh now you need to look out for your privacy
And we're the only ones who can protect your privacy and you know
the reason that you're now you're feeling like you're being scammed because you've not got what you've paid for but
They they I suspect they probably thought that they would genuinely be able to give what you were paying for
Sure, and now they found it's harder than they expected
So not to put you on the spot Ryan, but as somebody who's just recently gone through the crowdfunding thing
Do you feel an intense pressure to deliver on exactly what you committed to or do you feel like there's room to communicate?
With your backers who are passionate about your project that things are harder than you expected
Okay, so the deal from the beginning was we said that we were going to instead of opt for
Putting things too far forward so that we had to keep pushing it back
We were going to put it at a date that we were pretty comfortable with
Hitting even if we had delays, so we built in a delay
into our
Schedule for when we'd get mycroft out to people
We have a saying of
under promise over deliver
Thoughts on like oh man something comes up and now you know
We've got a we've got a we've got to kind of just roll with it. And now we have to communicate this
What what are your thoughts on?
Immediately be upfront about it. Yeah, no pressure says Michael. Yeah
um we would probably immediately go to every avenue that we had to communicate because we
Have to as a new company and as an and we already took people's money
We have to be as upfront as possible or else that would be the end of us
I think here's the disconnect for me and the purism project and other projects
I've backed in the past if you are sir
If you're going to a certain technically affluent audience
Then that audience also generally is able to recognize the scope of tasks you are trying to take on and that is at the core
Of the very reason they are giving you money because they recognize holy shit. You are trying to do something. That is incredible
Let me give you money, right?
That's a big thing and so those are people who are deeply
invested in the future of that project and it seems likely to me that those would also be the people most likely to best receive
Hey, this is way harder than we thought but we're still totally working on it. We apologize. We can't meet the expectations
Let us reset those for you and we will continue to clearly communicate those expectations that that is really what it seems like it takes
To successfully manage a project that has been crowdfunded that is slipping a little bit because the very people that are backing you
Acknowledge the fact that it's a difficult task
I think that's more of it right there is that there's been this disconnect between and they promise so much freedom, right?
And it the PR it sounds really good. That's what the casual Linux user wants home free BIOS
But you're marketing to an audience of people who like researches this stuff, right and we can see like well
That's really the same firmware. It's still closed and and that's fine
Like if you can make a more free laptop if you can progress towards that goal, that's great
But it's the same kind of like you need to understand your audience and you need to be clear with them at all steps
Yeah, can I give you a little bit of a shout out to the purism crew?
I would recommend that it that it's probably exactly what you described Chris and they've come across some technical challenges
That are much harder than they anticipated
What I would tell them to do is take your advice
explain that to the community that's following them and then they might be just surprised to find that somebody within the
Has a wealth of knowledge in that area in which they're hung up on it. If that is the case. Yeah
I think we all want to see more well-designed Linux laptops. Definitely. Yeah, that's that's why I backed it
We all want to see that and so if the answer is turns out it's a harder job than we thought that's a great answer
Because that means you're really working super hard on it and you're not cutting corners. So I'd love to hear that answer
Okay, so wimpy. I know you want to jump in here as we wrap up. Go ahead
Yeah, I agree, you know, I I'm conflicted about purism I
I
Identify with their goals and objectives. I'm
I've not seen anything to convince me that
Something's not quite right with the way they've gone about this. There's a number of issues that they've not been upfront about
But I've been testing out pure OS and the one thing that does stand out is the pure browser. Oh
Which I think is really
Quite good. So it's a rebranded
Firefox that comes
pre
configured with a number of
privacy enhancing
Plugins and extensions so it is something you could you know create for yourself, but as an out-of-the-box experience
It's quite nice. Well, let's be honest
That's a huge that is a huge thing because a lot of us would love to be able to say buy this
Yeah, and it's gonna be a great desktop for you. I
Didn't say that I said the pure browser is very well, okay
That's the goal though, right is we would love to be able to recommend a hardware desktop combo
You know and and it's not that this isn't being accomplished today
System 76 does it and you work with they start with an e I'm blanking for intro where enter aware
They also create really great out-of-the-box Linux desktop machines. This is Dell is working on it now
I mean, this is already beginning to happen in a big way and I think that that's the distinction between
Simply providing Linux compatible hardware
Versus a privacy and security focused
Complete package there are people out there that are making Linux compatible hardware and selling
Various flavors of Ubuntu and other distributions on it so you don't have to you know mess about you just get the full package delivered
Purism are trying to go a step further with having the whole operating system
Augmented in such a way that it is it is geared towards protecting your privacy, which is great
Yeah
and I think that maybe they should have focused on that part of it more than the whole operating system from the outset just
Get the privacy components, you know button down because pure browser is a good example of of where they've done it, right?
yeah, and I I you know, I would love to talk to somebody at
At cubes because I wonder too if for desktop implementation if containers
Might make more sense than entire VMs for applications
We've reviewed cubes before on the show and the performance is pretty incredible if you have the right
You know hardware the I7 or i5 stuff with the VMX and whatever whatever, you know
Whatever that stuff is I forget now the VT D and VT DC and VT X so you can actually get direct access to hardware
You can really have some serious performance
but
That does not the same as container ization and sandboxing which the other thing about that last thought and then I do want to move on
Well, all right, is that unidentified is that is that Alex who's that who keeps coming up as identified?
Let's talk about cubes because we should probably give cubes a mention. It is a badass. Go ahead
Go ahead
No, all right, maybe we just do it, you know what maybe we just do a whole thing on a whole segment on cubes
That's fine. That might be interesting because I do want to move on because I want to get to
Both of the con and the mycroft update. So we will you know what? Let's do this
Let's continue this conversation in the post show if you remind me will you help me?
I'm sure yeah. All right
So I want to talk about something really huge that AMD has announced this week
That is going to make it possible for developers that are currently creating application. I'm sorry games. I'm ahead
Creating games for things like consoles like the ps4 that runs an AMD GPU and others
I they they are creating an open-source technology that should theoretically make it possible for them to essentially have that type of experience
Across the PC with access to the code projects up on github
So I I am not because I don't follow this stuff very closely
I am not familiar with what the hell they're doing and why it's a big deal
so what I'm going to do and please apologize for a bit of the side diversion is
I'm going to play a little bit about Nvidia game works because Nvidia game works is
essentially a set of technology that developers can write to that works across the Nvidia cards things like physics and you know being able to
Make certain particle effects that you can know you write to this and it's gonna work on all these Nvidia cards it gives them
Essentially like an API to have effects across all this range of machines AMD is working on open source version of game works essentially
We're gonna tell you more about that, but just so you kind of understand why it's a big deal
I do want to play a little bit of Nvidia's video because it explains. Why this technology is awesome in
Video game works pushes the limits of gaming providing a more interactive and cinematic game experience enabling next-gen gaming for current games
We provide technologies like physics visual effects optics and a core SDK as well as game and graphic sample code
We also provide tools to debug profile and optimize your game and graphics code
Here are some of our latest technologies
Nvidia flame works enables cinematic smoke fire and explosions
It combines a state-of-the-art grid based fluid simulator with an efficient volume rendering engine
The system is highly customizable and supports user-defined emitters force fields and collision objects
Nvidia face works provides shaders for realistic skin rendering enabling skin subsurface scattering
Which means that light not only reflects off the skin, but it also transmits through the layers of skin below the surface in addition
We also support deep scattering simulating light transmissions through thin membranes
Nvidia wave works allows realistic ocean simulation for interactive applications with full control over the look and feel from gentle ripples
To a heavy storm-tossed ocean based on the Beaufort scale
The energy-based surface foam simulation is locked to and driven by the underlying spectral simulation
Physx flex is a particle based simulation technique for real-time visual effects
It'll be introduced as a new feature in the upcoming physics SDK version 3.4. All right, so you get it, right?
It's a series of stuff that developers can expect to just work for them
And I thought who said it in the chat room. Somebody had just nailed
I think it was like techno techno dragon says Nvidia deliberately cripples their drivers
He says he hates Nvidia and game works as a stranglehold on gave on the game development community, and it's disgusting
Well, his passion is exactly what I've been feeling as I've been doing some research into this so today our AMD announced GPU open
And it's their open-sourced gaming development now
This is actually pretty nice as part of AMD's recent
Summit the company released information about a new initiative to help drive development and evolution in the world of gaming called GPU open as
Name implies the idea is to use open source mentality for drivers
libraries SDKs and more now the idea here is the developers look at direct access to code and
It's the the promise is to solve the problem of developers wanting to write their games for multiple platforms multiple systems
AMD believes that many developers are sick of black box development environments
They're having a negative effect on the PC gaming environment the black box mentality means that developers
Don't have access to the source code of some of the packages and thus cannot tweak performance and features to their liking
GP open is going to be direct access open software
using industry standards
AMD's GPU open is the solution to the problem offering unprecedented access to the GPU through API's and SDKs
Starting and cultivating open source software suite that includes effects tools libraries and SDKs and inviting participation
From other hardware and software vendors to add and modify all parts. They're going to have code up on github in January
Which is very awesome? They're going to include a bunch of like different things like Nvidia has in game works
like Liquid VR and Tres VX
Firebase SDKs for impressive fire demonstrations
They are specifically calling out that these are open source initiatives including a headless 64-bit Linux driver a
driver that is
Particularly particularly advantageous to Steam OS machines. They have a great graphic of the new AMD Linux drivers back this chart
They specifically spent time in the presentation talking about their Linux drivers stack
Their plans are basically this they have a revitalized take on the Linux software
They say they're going to have broader out of the distro box support whatever the hell that is
But that's actually what they call it out of the distro box support
accelerated implementation of new products and features
And will include community built innovations and improvements
The AMD GPU package will be unified in both the closed and open source mode drivers keeping support and feature sets for all Linux users
Seems like pretty big stuff now Wes. I'm curious because I am NOT a big AMD GPU user today
This kind of s though makes me think well, maybe down the road I will be and when you look at this
What stands out to you? What jumps out at you?
Well first it's a lot of promises right? It's a lot of stuff will be delivered
We'll see the code in January
But you know they already have done a lot of stuff a lot of AMD GPU support has been merged into kernels
You know that stuff is is coming along and I think that graphic is great
Just kind of showing you that at least they're moving to a model where the core part in the kernel that that parts open source
And they are working with the open source community on the open source open GL implementation
Yeah
on the open is the open source AMD GPU base graphics the open source UMDs for open GL multimedia and open CL and
All of the kernel and runtime stuff is going to be all open
Then they're gonna have a professional gamer driver
Which you know what I think that's an interesting way to call it right and they're gonna. I think that's it so essentially
If I'm understanding what their effort here is
You could have a really great AMD GPU experience out of the box a year or so from now and maybe not even need to load
The proprietary stuff right unless you have a specialized workflow. You know you're doing lots of scientific computations
You're a high end gamer who wants you know 4k resolution right now
I think that the 2d graphics on AMD in my experience they support multi monitors very well video acceleration works great
You know you can get it installed x11 support out of the box and
Now to see them working towards the future at they you know the the open CL and Vulkan drive
Is gonna start closed source, but they say that they're gonna work to open source that so hopefully for the seizure with Wayland and Vulkan
We'll have all open source. Yeah, but
You know at least referring to this game work stuff. I think it's huge for the NVIDIA
It really feels kind of like a micro an old-style Microsoft move right yeah
Well the graphics hardware you can play the game on both, but oh you use our nice shiny libraries
And you'll get all these nice effects for free, but only works on NVIDIA or at least only for four
This is something that isn't you know isn't necessarily limited to AMD GPUs exactly let's go to the birthday boy, Mr. Westra
You're sticking to Intel for best out-of-the-box support
Mr.. West right, I'll hear you
All right, well he's probably too busy eating birthday cake wimpy as somebody who's packaging a distribution
This has to be appealing to you long term, right?
Yes, I wish I was more conversant in the linguistics of
Linux
Video card drivers, but I'm not I just hope it all works and works. Well. Yeah, and that's what's important
Yeah, I agree and that is exactly what my thinking is ww. I take it away
I'm curious about your thoughts on the long-term
You know looking back at somebody who's been messing with AMD drivers on Linux for a while and ATI drivers
Is this got to feel kind of appealing to you?
I think it is because as Tech Dragon said earlier in video
It has a stranglehold on game works and on developers because their drivers have always been on point for game releases
And supporting those games and optimizing them. That's why if it has such a stranglehold
But in the issues have stemmed back to even before they
ATI. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So and so even drivers back in the 90s were horrendous and didn't work
Right all the time. So I'm hoping with what I saw about their crimson drivers for Windows and hopefully
This will get AMD back on the right track with their video cards and maybe they'll be a lot more competitive than they are
Now it's never been their hardware. It's been their software. That's been holding them back
Yeah, and you know, I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing
It's been their hardware. It's been their software that's been holding them back. Yeah, and you know
Some people think that this is the prelude to AMD rolling out a totally new GPU
Architecture and these drivers are sort of the building blocks you need and it could be super super cool
Markz, I want to give you the last word as somebody who's also sounds like they've struggled with some package updates in the past
What do you think?
Yeah, I just hope that um that some of the uh the
Not, you know, not the newest
Like the ones they're just releasing when all this code is released
Hardware is is supported in some of the new open source goodness
And I really really hope that they the having this more stuff open source
Allows them to sort out their their driver install an update process because at the moment it is just so painful
Yeah. Yeah, I think that's that's true. And that's honestly if that is the best case scenario, then maybe I will start reconsidering
ATR AMD video cards again, right?
I mean if you can get great out-of-the-box open source support for like that'll work for 80% coverage at least right like right now
I'm like Odyssey man
I've been betting on Intel to just get better and better and better and better with the virus pro and hope for the best
The the long-term computer user me who's been who's been building PCs, you know since forever now
Since you could build PCs really which is kind of weird
I know that the dedicated GPU in that entire history has always been more powerful and the
That is always always going to be the case because that is a dedicated space for research development
Implementation and you can modify you can replace without having to change your main CPU, right?
Which just means over a period of years, you know
You can interchange that part
And so if that becomes the part that I can interchange is an AMD GPU
That means it's easy for me to reload a machine. I get up and running very fast. I get my desktop effects
I can play games it
That's all it really takes for me to start buying AMD GPUs from here on out
So like hardware's the hardware is perfectly capable. It's just you know
Whenever I see an update is needed by hot sinks, and I know yeah a couple of hours
Yeah, I'm messing around that has to change that has to change
Yeah, only what 1% of users are willing to even consider doing that apparently
Alright, so we can spend all day on this, but I do want to move really quickly
so that way we can start talking ubi con I want to talk about KDE 5.1 or sorry 5.5.1, which came out today and
Was it this is an amazing turnaround. So KDE plasma desktop 5.5.0
Shipped like on Thursday last week and 5.5.1
Shipped on Tuesday. So some seriously fast updates still running plasma 5 desktop as my main desktop
we reviewed it in the Linux action show this past week lots of updates lots of fixes and
Yeah, I'll keep running it for a bit and give you my take on it
But yeah, they have I have I can't really think of another time where a desktop has been updated that quickly
So there you go and interesting a bit of a dichotomy here, which I find to be perfectly exemplifies the Linux desktop experience
without question if you want to be right up there with the latest stable plasma 5 desktop updates arch is a great
distro to go with because
Honestly 20 minutes after the news release that there's an update the packages are in arch
I mean it is really something and and honestly, it's because I mean everybody everybody who's followed this for a while actually knows this a
Lot of core devs for the plasma desktop are arch users
So they are also the maintainers for the plasma 5 desktop packages
So that's why it happens so fast just got its fingers kind of everywhere. Yeah, but it's it's funny because after I reviewed
plasma 550 on an arch desktop
Core devs came out and said oh, well, yeah, you're doing it on art
So you're gonna have this problem and that problem and like really so the distro where you can get packages
20 minutes after the release announcement is the distro where you get all of the weird oddities really?
I mean, there's no great wiki those audit. I mean if the oddities are documented, yeah
That's right. I mean then you know the one the one that really burns me that I I have
I have gotten the most feedback on is
under the plasma 5 desktop
Ok, I'm just for those of you who don't like rants. This will be over about one minute
I just got to write the timer this really upsets me and so I might get a little upset
But I'm gonna try to keep it calm
Ok, so the thing that really bothers me because it actually makes me want to crap my pants is on the plasma 5 desktop
Applications keep changing my default system volume to 100% and I have seriously the world's loudest speakers
Like they shake the house when they go off
And so I'm death now
Because every now and then I launch an application and then I go to close Kate or K right and I get it
Would you like to save prompt and it is the loudest thing I've ever experienced in my life loads
Yeah, it literally breaks glass it boom, right and everybody tells me hey Chris no bigs
You just have to turn off auto leveling or whatever. It's called in pulse audio. It's a bug in pulse audio
And the way the package maintainers installed it or the way they packaged it up. It's not actually a plasma 5 desktop issue
Ok
Completely except that I do not argue that fundamental fact at all
Here's the thing and this is what I cannot wrap my head around and I get really upset
Because like there's not a lot of things in my life
I can brag about like I don't have a lot of things that like I can walk around and be like
Yeah, I can tell I can I can say this, but here's one thing. I can't say heron. That's it, right?
well that and the fact that I've literally used Linux on the desktop since the 90s and
And I'm not on one computer
But like on 12 computers and in certain periods of times hundreds of servers at a time
Right across multiple different types of hardware architectures of multiple different desktop environments multiple different Linux distributions
Since the 90s and then on top of that
I have done two podcasts that closely follow the development of Linux software and one of them has been going on for ten years
Like I'm not trying to brag but literally I am like super informed and super familiar with the subject matter, right?
like hyper aware of the subject matter I
Certify Chris I guess as a Linux desktop expert just for a second
Like I I really don't know like there's probably only like I mean how many people literally have
Years of experience like this. We're for ten years. You are on almost a weekly basis reviewing different desktop environments different Linux distributions
Non-stop right and in all of these different configurations across multiple different hardware configurations and architectures across multiple different distributions
multiple different desktop environments for
1112 years. I don't know how long has it been since it's been 96
How many years has that been you do the math? That's since pulse audio was ever shipped ever in a distribution ever
I have used pulse audio since it literally ever shipped
I have used it and I have never ever ever had this problem where my
Applications automatically jack up the audio to a hundred percent while the application I'm presently using is using the volume
I expected at so ie. I'm sorry. I'm getting upset, but it actually really does bother me
I'm using Chrome and I'm watching a YouTube video and it's at 20% system volume which is about what I like to listen to
because these speakers are very loud and then a
Randomly, it feels like I go to close K right and it prompts me to close or save the document and the volume is
at a hundred percent and it
Devastates me and I do not understand why and I have never ever ever had this problem under any other desktop environment ever
Except for the plasma desktop. I acknowledge there is a setting I can change in pulse config to turn this
Leveling off I have never ever had to do that. So what I do not understand is the disconnect between
Why I only experience in the plasma desktop and then when I go to talk about in a review everybody's like I've never had that
Problem or I have it under every desktop like I if that is true
This is fundamentally a problem with Linux. I cannot look at it any other way
This is fundamentally an issue with developing desktop software for the Linux platform
And if this is truly how end-users randomly experience different things that are completely unlike any other distro any other user
Experiencing the desktop has ever seen that how the hell could you ever write an application for that?
I can't accept that I have to accept there is something all of the other desktop environments are doing
That plasma desktop isn't doing and because plasma desktop isn't doing it. I experienced the issue under the plasma desktop
End of rant. I don't want to go on any further
I don't want to talk about it. It's just
Okay, I'm sorry big sigh Chris. Just get it all out. Thank you. Thank you
It's just I I have gotten I've gotten like 130 emails about it
There's like a huge threat in the Linux action show so I read it about it. I've gotten tweets about it
I've gotten g-plus messages about it. I understand but what I'm telling you is I am coming from an
Unfathomable amount of real-world experience that literally most of you out there that are telling me you don't have this problem
Can't likely have unless you have been hosting the Linux action show for ten years and reviewing distributions at desktop environments on a weekly
Basis and I doubt I doubt that is you and I'm just saying I have some standing in this and I am telling you it
Only happens under the plasma desktop and I acknowledge that it is a core issue with the way the pulse
Software was packaged for wherever I installed it under any distribution. I installed under I acknowledge that but somehow
Those clever sons of bitches over at Gnome and an XFCE and open box and and all of the other desktops
Are somehow?
Solving this problem
Okay. Okay. I'm sorry. That's
Now, you know, I'll just take those speakers off your hand if that might be the easy
The reason why I got so upset as I thought I don't think I can ever review the plasma desktop again
Because I just there is such a disconnect from my experience and the rest of the audience's experience
That I feel like a d-bag at the end of it because like I I apparently
Experienced stuff that nobody else really runs into and then like there's like two people and throw like oh, yeah
I have that same problem and like but everybody else including core developers of KDE and everything or plasma stop by and tell me I'm
wrong and it I don't know how to
to match those two things up because I
Just I'm apparently unqualified to review the plasma desk. You shouldn't even be allowed to run the plasma
Apparently, so I I remove so here's what I'm gonna do if I ever if I ever review the plasma desktop again
Please disregard all my thoughts on it and don't listen to that episode
Okay, cuz that's that's just the only way to solve that problem apparently and that's all I have to say on that
All right
Now let's let's change gears. Let's let's move on to something more positive
I just I'm not gonna I'm not gonna continue that thread in the Linux action show
So I had to get it out here and and I didn't want to rip in anybody in in on the internet where people could quote
My words I'll do it right here in the show. If you look at take my I mean no one listens to this anyway
No, no bill ever hear this. So I'm safe to do here. This is a safe space. You know, it also is a safe space digital ocean
That's where I want you to go to create your own droplet digital ocean is a simple cloud hosting provider dedicated to offering the most
Intuitive and easy way to spin up your own Linux written rig in the cloud, but use our promo code lat no not last
Wes not last not last. I mean you could last digital you could that's fine. But then Noah gets so much credit
Yeah, I can't I can't have that guy lives in Grand Forks. What's wrong with him?
You got to use the promo code do unplug that'll give you a $10 credit
You can try out their $5 rig two months for free. Yeah, $5 rig and you can start unless than 55 seconds
You get 512 megabytes of RAM a 20 gigabyte SSD one CPU and a terabyte. You say a terabyte a terabyte
Here's here's what I'm thinking West. Oh, I don't know. I use 300 gigs maybe and you know what I do with the rest of
that
And torrent the latest Ubuntu Mate release. Oh
Yeah, I give them a little extra help. I help them out, you know for $5
You can get more than the Comcast caps that they're starting to put roll out around the country
Don't start on Comcast and talk about a great way to work around things like caps, right?
You know, I was I was following Cassidy the guy who works on the elementary OS project works at system 76 and he had a
System he had a post on G plus
About a new UI that digital ocean is rolling out
To like Matt to create multiple droplets at once. Oh, it is so
So cool. It is so nice. You know, the elementary OS project is
Backed by digital ocean. I think they I did not know that. Mm-hmm
So that's probably why he was up following what they're doing. They're working on some really cool stuff
They have a very nice interface that allows you to manage your different Linux boxes and set them up and move them around the world
And back them up and deploy applications take advantage of Docker containers
They got the latest versions of Ubuntu fedora sent OS the Debian core OS
Don't tell Alan I don't think he knows I don't I don't think he knows that man
I love that interface, but what's really cool about the interface is the API. Here's what here I put it
I asked here's the thing I need
Go make a digital ocean
manager applet thingy for the gnome desktop
Use a digital ocean API once you make that I'm gonna switch back to know
Yeah, cuz their API is super straightforward. It's well documented. There was a thread in the Linux action show subreddit saying hey
Is there a thing cuz like for the unity desktop and for Windows and for Mac?
There are little like you know like the little indicator little status bar icon
Yeah
You can get those for like Ubuntu and you can like
Snapshot stop and restart and all that kind of stuff your digital ocean droplets because they're just using that API the gnome desktop doesn't
Have that I got extension to do all kinds of zany things
But you know if they don't do they don't manage my droplet so I ask the audience somebody go make that and then I'll switch back
To know we're starting the countdown now. Let's see how long it takes the community mm-hmm digital ocean calm use the promo code
Do unplugged go check them out go create a Linux machine up in the cloud. It's super fast
And they got data centers in New York San Francisco Singapore Amsterdam London in Germany and a brand new kick the NSA and the balls
Data center right up there in Toronto
Which I that's not it. That's not digital ocean saying that I'm just kind of surmising that based on the fact that it's
Geographically it's in the north, but it's and it's on the same continent
But yet it's outside the legal walls of the United States of America, and it's brand new so it's got
Sweet pipes 40 gigabit e connections to each hyper visors their fastest SSDs yet because they're all SSDs digital ocean comm use the promo
Code do unplugged and a big. Thank you
to digital ocean for sponsoring
Linux
Unplugged man those guys whoa all right, so now let's talk to mr.
Michael Hall community manager over there at canonical to tell us about
Ubuntu's event of the year, and he brought along a whole cohort of compadres mr.
Hall welcome to Linux unplugged and if you would introduce who you brought with you
Well, thank you for having us on with me
I've got Nathan Haynes and Richard Gaskin who are from the California local community
And they've actually been the ones who have been running the ubu con in California for several years now
So I'm actually I'm gonna talk a little bit about
Ubu cons in general, and then I'm gonna hand it over to them to talk specifically about the big event
Yeah, I mean I've heard I've been to the Ubuntu
I've been to like the Ubuntu one summit way back in the day where it was like paired next to OSCON
I've heard of virtual Ubuntu online summits. I'm not familiar with ubu cons
So what is ubu con and is it only happening in California or is it something that's bigger than that?
So if we go all the way back
Um the Ubuntu community used to have two events every year called the Ubuntu developer summit these were big in-person events
They have people from canonical people from the community all gather in one place
We did that for several years. It grew really big really expensive got expensive so
So a few years back we decided that we were going to take it online
We're gonna do it all online over Google Hangouts and IRC and YouTube and whatnot so that everybody can participate
And it doesn't cost us millions of dollars anymore
That's a brilliant it worked really well for development planning which was on the surface
What UDS was all about sure? But what we've lost was that human connection that social network?
That you get by being in the same place with and Michael
Don't you think like that was sort of like you only really figured that out by trying the virtual conferences because it's it's so easily
You know you think today in in nearly 2016 with Skype or Hangouts, right?
And and Google Docs and real-time collaboration with own cloud all these things make it possible to be really hyper connected
So we can all meet in virtual space from our from our bedrooms with our webcams
It's something we've tried here at JB and we discovered yeah, that's good at a certain level
But there is nothing like the collaborative environment that happens in person
Yeah, it's something we started calling the hallway track because it was you know the communications that happen in the hallway between sessions or over
lunch or at the bar and
It turns out that there was a lot going on there outside of you know the regular
Track sessions that we had that we were missing out on when we went online
Sure sure yeah, and so is ubi cons sort of replacing these online dev summits is it supplementing? What's going on there?
So ubi cons have actually been around before we went online ubi cons have been something that the community has been doing for a long time
They're not canonical events. They're all grassroots from our local community. Okay, so these popped up like I said, Nathan
Richard I've been working on the one in California for quite a while now
there's been one in
Europe and in
South America and we've got some now in the southeast US they're usually co-hosted with other conferences
So we get like a room in a day that we can dedicate just to a bunch of presentations
Right, and you can also take advantage of folks that maybe already gonna be in the area for that other event, too
Which is which is kind of brilliant from a budgeting standpoint for attendees
Exactly, so these became kind of regional events
They augmented the local team events which were per state or city or something like that
So they're drawing a little bit bigger of a crowd and when we did take UDS online
They really started to grow to fill that void that was left from not having those in-person events
Sure, and so we've watched them grow in locations and in size. Also the one in California is getting really really big
so we were talking with Richard and Nathan after the
Ubu con from 2015 at scale about doing something much much bigger taking it up to to a big new level
Getting more canonical involvement and more canonical resources to help grow that so that's what's become what we're now calling the ubu con summit
So it's one big event where we're again pulling in people from all over the world
We're sending a bunch of canonical employees there to talk
Mark Shuttleworth is gonna have a keynote there. He's gonna be there for a panel also on the second day
And so it's gonna be a lot of what we had at UDS. It's not going to be
The development discussions. We're not going to be planning
You know a bunch whose development because we still do all of that online much more frequently than we can do in person
But it's gonna regain a lot of that human connection that we used to have. Yeah
So let's talk about the actual event itself and Michael. I don't know if you you can you can pass this off
but my question is
What was it like getting something scheduled near scale?
And what was the what was the basic logic there and what should people expect and let's start with why?
Why near scale and the logistics in it and Michael maybe you can punt that to somebody from the yeah
I'm definitely gonna put this to Nathan and Richard because they know all of those logistics a lot better than I do
Yeah, great, and Nathan was the starter. So let's start with Nathan perfect Nathan taken
So I was asked a few years back to sort of
Start at this this EB con was a new new concept and I was asked to be one of the first people to do it
as a sort of a mini convention all-day thing and
so we approached scale since they're the
Base, they're this little regional conference, but they're really the largest sort of first the year conference and
they were really approachable and they said sure no problem got some sponsors paid for the room and
We've got some people in there and I landed speakers and before I knew it
You know the room filled up and then we had the hotel bring
What that was sponsoring the conference or hosting conference?
We had the hotel bringing more chairs and then those filled up me more chairs and then we were standing room only
It's been a been a hit ever since and do you think do you think it's so I noticed the ubi con attendance 100% free
But you guys are asking for folks to register. We'll have links in the show notes if they want to register
But what I think is really smart here and I kind of want to get you to talk about this a little bit
Nathan if you would is I mean, why why is it now?
Why why write the day before a day or so before scale? Why is it so close to scale? And what's the goal there?
Well scale is such a large
Wonderful example of the open source community
So you're basically the logic is it's bringing a lot of people to that area
Well, that's part of it but the skill
Atmosphere is really friendly. I like to say that scale is the best of a fan convention and a trade show all mixed into one
So that I mean it the talks are fantastic. There's beginner level talks
There's advanced sys admin talks. There's a youth track where you know kids and teens host the talks and
hundreds of
Exhibitors there. There's really something for every everyone and we wanted to do the exact same
Environment and feel for EBC on as well because that really does sort of embody the you being two communities that everyone's welcome
No matter sort of what you your focus is or what your skill level is. And so it was a
Because skill had so much
Experience running the convention. They were able to basically handle all the logistics for us early on
So that we didn't have to do anything. It was really
Wow
They continue to amaze even even this year coming up for the next next about that's really great
That is really awesome to hear them sort of doing that for you
And I don't know maybe Nathan or somebody else who might be better to answer this but as a non day-to-day Ubuntu user
I mean, I absolutely use Ubuntu on some on a few droplets
I've got a few Ubuntu machines here, but you know as a non day-to-day Ubuntu user
What would maybe I expect?
Attending the summit what what would be sort of appealing to me?
We have two tracks so depending upon your tastes we have something for you
This year at Ubicon
We're splitting it into two tracks where we have a track for users and a track for makers mostly
application development and other types of DevOps stuff
So you can look at the schedule we have and you can pick the tracks that fit your interests and there's probably something for everyone
What a great idea. So it's like it's I mean
Obviously, it's people making things and probably using Ubuntu, but it's like if you want to accomplish this goal this task make this thing
Here's how you can do it under Ubuntu my tracking
exactly, yeah, we have this maker track for
Application development for desktop and mobile and snappy and now that that's rolling out that'll be over there
But we also have a lot of community support Ubuntu. Ubicon rather has historically just been a community event
Of by and for the community and we have a lot of people there who are fairly new to Ubuntu
So we have the user track to help them get started find help resources and those sorts of things
So how official of a canonical event is this this is not truly is this more of a loco kind of official event?
Or is this a is this a canonical sanction aka sponsored or perhaps financed event? Mr. Halby's that may be better answered by you
I think we both answer that so it is a community led event still it is still you know
Richard and Nathan who are spearheading this we are
Giving some financial support. We're also looking for some external sponsors to help pay for like the rooms that we're taking from scale
The coffee breaks that we're gonna have during the day
But we are we're investing more in it and it internally in canonical. It's an official event in that
Engineering managers can send employees to it using their travel budget
so we're gonna have I think somewhere around 30 canonical employees that are being sent to this either to speak or just to you know
be there for the
Unconference sessions that we're going to have also cool
So if I want to attend I have to show up how many days before scale?
You have to
You should show up on the 20th because we're planning on doing a social event that evening of the 20th for people who are there
The actual event starts on the 21st
Okay, and you guys have like an Ubuntu promo code to get some some change off the scale full access pass, right?
Yes, if you go to our registration page on ubucon.org
There'll be two buttons one to register for
Ubucon just so we know how many you know drink tickets and stuff
we need to have at the parties and then another button to register for scale and if you use the
Ubuntu and it's missing a letter because of their promo code system, but it's on the page
You use that promo code and it's 50% of a mission to scale itself. I love it
I really do everybody coming to ubucon to please register for scale. It helps support them, you know
They're doing a lot for us. So we want to support them plus
It's really an amazing show if you if you go to ubucon and you don't miss scale
You're really missing out on something. But did I hear there's gonna be party a party because that
That might be the censure for me Chris can never resist. I think I'm gonna have to go
I think I'm gonna have to drive from Washington State to California to party. It will be
takes to convince you you should definitely
I've been going to scale. I've been going to scale for many years and I like to think of it as a vast learning party
There are intense sessions from some of the finest minds in open source and at night there's parties
There's game night on Saturday night at scale and then with ubucon
We have the reception party Wednesday night and then another ubucon party Thursday night
There's and you'll be meeting a lot of friends. You'll be making your own parties in between. I
Like it. I like it. It is a good it sounds like a fun experience, you know
Boy, I would love for some of you guys to also consider coming up to Linux fest Northwest because that is a it is
A great show and one of the great things about Linux fest Northwest. It's getting really big
But it's it hasn't tipped yet. So it has a genuine one-on-one community
Like you can oh you talk you talk to the guy at Debian who is working on X or you talk to the person at Facebook
Who's like the btrfs developer like it's just it's such a unique experience
So I want to give a plug for Linux fest Northwest, but I'm thinking I'm thinking I should go
What do you think West you think I should go to scale?
For you a little bit more
Both Ryan cipes from my crop and Alan Pope are going to be there. Yeah
Yeah, you know actually being poppy being there alone is almost is almost enough to make me go actually poppy
Are you planning to go to any other events throughout the year yet in the US?
No, that's the only one I'm going
I'm afraid. Oh
Man, oh man, the pressure is on, you know, here's what I'm gonna do West is cuz I can't make up my mind
You know
I am I am horrible at making my mind I because I can bounce back and forth because part of me feels like I could
Go to all the other conferences throughout the year and get what I would get at scale
But then other part of me feels like this is actually with ubi con and the fact that everybody's gonna be there
This is actually gonna be kind of a special thing. So here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna let the audience decide
I just valuable resource the audience. I just put the link in the IRC straw poll dot me
sixty two seventy eight four seventy seven if you're not in the chat room and
straw poll dot me sixty two seventy eight four seventy seven you go boat and
Let me know what you think. You think I should go down to scale and cover ubi con and also scale itself
So Chris, this is a promise, right? So if I say yes, that means that Linux fest northwest coverage will not be sacrificed
There might be some
New ones on this page. I'm just curious there doesn't mean there won't necessarily be patreon milestones that are established
But yes, you know actually before we go any further
This is legitimately a good time to mention that if you had a successful patreon payment in the month of November
And you should I'm serious here. Then you should go over to the show notes for episode
123 we had a
We'll have a swag link in this episode. So we've been giving away swag for the holidays
And like we just gave away this awesome. Look at that beautiful you ever listen on filter. I do the red book
That's the official red book right there. I'm gonna have to ask you about where you got that made
That is a lovely little it is super awesome. We just gave it to a viewer Lucas, too
we have been working on a whole bunch of swag for the holidays and
We just gave away a coda right coda radio mug with a beautiful green handle it in and a green man and you yeah
Yeah, yeah, right there. We gave that to Adrian. He got that and of course also we gave a really nice beer coaster
Big thick piece of glass with the Linux action show circular logo in there to Brandon's go all out
Yeah, this is beautiful. We have a Linux unplugged
Specific swag they'll be given given away from episode 123
There'll be a link in the show notes
The only catch isn't because we need your help and I really need your support is you do have to have a successful patreon payment
Now a little bird and I cannot I can't come on here and I cannot disclaim who that little birdie is
But a little birdie told me that will probably likely also include
a successful December patrons
So if you go to patreon.com slash today or unfilter and you want to back either the whole network or the unfilter show specifically
You'll be you'll be entered and it's easy. I mean patreon makes it so so anyway audience go vote away
Let me know straw poll dot me and let me know if I should go to scale and if you also think I should go
To scale maybe you should consider going to page
Today because I still want to do Linux vest Northwest like a boost. That's the thing if I go to scale
I don't want to scale back on Linux vest Northwest. So that's sort of the agreement. We're gonna reach anyways
Let me move on before we go any further
I got it
I got to pay the infrastructure bills the things that keeps the lights on the thing that
Literally keeps the payments on the studios possible
That is Linux Academy go to Linux Academy comm slash
Unplugged to support the show to support the whole damn network to keep the lights on and to learn
More Linux Academy is a platform designed by Linux users for Linux users full stop
Legitimately, that's all you really need to know, isn't it? It's not a half-assed
Implementation of some feature set because they have a online learning platform and Linux is something that people talk a lot about
So we should probably have some courseware on it. It's not that it's people who are like
Fanatics about open source and Linux. It's people like your very host here who are dedicated
Talking about Linux and open source all of the time only instead of doing podcasts
They did a whole training infrastructure and honestly one that has a revenue model. There's much more obvious and straightforward jealous, but
Linux Academy comm slash unplugged
I I really love them because they have followed the most important open source trends for a long time now uncreated tutorials
Instructions, I mean we're talking stuff almost 2,000 comprehensive study guides that are just brilliant with instructor help available on-demand
You videos you can watch downloadable comprehensive study guides
And I gotta say it a several. I gotta make sure I say it several times a spot read
Instructor help is available when you need it with these self-paced courses
That is huge because if you're like good at just doing it on your own then guess what?
You almost got 2,000 videos where you can get going 2,000 self-paced courses
You're good to go blast through that stuff
Go ahead and be Superman if you get stuck and you need a little help though back that instructor help is a huge deal
And it's very unique because these guys are you know Linux experts like that's a big deal
Not only that they have scenario based labs. You have real-world experience with this stuff
You really know what it's like to implement it. They have nuggets
So if you don't have a lot of time because the holidays are coming up
You can still get value out of your Linux Academy subscription with these nuggets. They have self-paced availability planners. You know what I got
Look, you can go at Linux Academy. The holidays are coming up. I got a little bit of time on Monday
What do you got for me? It will automatically generate courseware that matches your availability
They've got nuggets that are two minutes to an hour long deep dive into a single topic like backing up your Linux box
Sinking your Linux box
managing your firewall managing SSH keys
Bash aliases all this stuff and the list is really extensive
Just a couple of minutes long maybe an hour long like just go there when you just want to do a little bit of learning
It's a really cool resource and here's the best part because Linux Academy has been supporting Jupiter broadcasting for a while
The community is stacked full of Jupiter broadcasting members
We're all there and so it's like your peer group who likes the same things you like who are trying to accomplish the same things
You're accomplishing to help you along the way
This is sort of like any time I've ever tried to exercise and stick to it
The only way I can do it is if I can talk either a significant other or a friend into doing it with me
We'll guilt you. Yeah, when you're too lazy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and and
Really it does work. It is motivation. Well, so-and-so knows it is literally motivation
It's a good head game to play with yourself to keep you working and on top of all of that
They take the best current technologies that utilize open source or Linux and they make it quantifiable in an actual time commitment
You go in there and you see this concept like Ruby or Python that I've been trying to learn
It's gonna take me five hours
So it's not this nebulous idea of oh, I want to learn how to do Python
It now becomes I need to dedicate five hours to this and I will know how to write Python
If you haven't done it before that shift is
Fundamentally awesome because it allows you to just sit back and learn and it gets you off your butt
No more procrastinating because it's such a big nebulous thing. It is six hours. It's five hours
That is so freeing to let you just sit back and learn Linux Academy comm slash unplugged and a huge
Thank you the Linux Academy for the support of the unplugged show and for creating such a kick-ass system. It's awesome
Yeah, Linux Academy comm slash
unplugged
Speaking of kick-ass systems. Holy smokes. It is time. We talk about a kick-ass system
Ryan joins us from the mycroft project with a really great update this week that I looked at this and I thought alright
They are really thinking about the end-user experience. They're really thinking about the details Ryan. Welcome back to Linux unplugged
How the heck is the mycroft project doing?
We're doing really good. We're we're coming up against the end of
December which was when we talked about having our final design done
and so we've really been rapidly developing on on the hardware side of things and then on the software we're really beginning to
know exactly, you know, what components go where and how to utilize those and
I'm kind of crunched on time
So if if I can't finish out this conversation
I'm going to turn you over to our sys admin Aaron who happens to have his fingers and all the parts of this project
As well, so yeah, I know you do have to go very soon
And so Ryan one of the things I wanted to touch on with you is it looks like you've been taking a lot of input
From backers the hack me port the rear mounting plate
The new even the silicone feet anything you can kind of touch on on that like what kind of feedback you guys been getting?
And what kind of change has been made overall to the project?
so when we first started
We had a couple of different perks on the Kickstarter and what we noticed was that like 90% of the people who backed
We're getting the extended version of mycroft
Anyway with a lot of the ports exposed and a lot of different ways that you can interact with it and hack it and so
When we got that feedback in in the way of that stuff, you know, those people making those orders
we decided to pivot and kind of
adjust
mycroft design to
accommodate them even more and so once we started getting pictures of people who wanted to like
Included as a head for their robot and other things like that. We thought let's not make it harder for them to do this
let's make it easy and let's let's really target this at making it the
The simplest possible to enhance mycroft and to and integrate it into your yeah
Why not right and Ryan before you run?
one last thing maybe you want to touch on before we get into some of the other stuff is
Any any notes you want to touch on within with the official Ubuntu partnership?
Yeah, well, we actually we're talking to Martin who's kind of a part of there
He's like a senior vice president of their IOT. He's got a really long like 16
And so that's important probably the Ubuntu guys could tell you a little bit better but
He was talking about how there's a lot of interest from certain groups about
voice enabling their appliances and these embedded devices that they ship out the door and so
He thought mycroft would be a really neat way to do that
and so after some conversations they decided to make it official and put a ring on it and
and so now
We're we're a canonical partner and we are so very happy
To be working with them because they're they've just been really awesome to us every step of the way
Yeah, and I can't I I love this this idea of open source companies coming together working together
Yeah, something that really I think we can do better than the proprietary
right, you know products in this area and so it actually tugs on my heartstrings to
To have them talk to us and want to work with us on this and I think that's just awesome
They bring a lot of not official endorsement, but you know, they've existed for a long. Yeah brand as a successful
Yeah business for a long time and that can only be I agree. I think the concept is solid
I think the brand support is good and I think it's smart for
Canonical or aka Ubuntu to want to work with you
So Ryan, thanks a bunch for coming on and I really like these weekly updates to are you are you going to continue doing these?
I know there's a video series now, too. What's the plan there?
Okay. Yeah, so one thing that I was gonna talk about this a little bit in regards to purism
but actually I got a shout out on
Google Plus from somebody who was asking if the project was dead because they hadn't received an update in a couple weeks and
They were and they were talking about how the our web server before we moved it had a hiccup
And so the website went down for an hour and so they were like, oh my god
Did I just get scammed, you know my crop took my money and now their websites down
And so we decided to become more frequent about our updates
It's easy to get so down in the trenches with a project and forget to like share out what's happening
And so we've just made that a part of our workflow
So we try to take everything that we're doing put it in a document and then I read through that and turn it into
human readable format
I think that goes a long way it does because now you're getting coverage here on the show and
Hundreds of thousands of people are gonna download the show and listen to it
So, I mean it is I mean, it's hard to quantify the value of it
But here we are you and I are having this conversation and I think we all understand, you know
So you want to be polished you want to look good?
but I think people are very accepting of like well you just put this out and you gave us more information and even if they're
Like some typos and there's you know, whatever mistakes. Yeah, just the fact that the communication goes along so Ryan before you run
will you introduce me to your co-worker there and
Let me know what we can talk to him about
Well, let me pull him in Aaron is here and he is a giant fan of the show
He's smacking his head because he doesn't he's so he's been nervous about talking to to you Chris
but I he is a
Master when it comes to our infrastructure and he has set up so many awesome tools and he could probably spend an entire episode
talking about just the tools that we've utilized and
he's his face is turning really red and
so
I'm going to leave him in right you
Him in or you and his capable hands, okay
And he probably will have a lot to contribute in the way of other things you talk about on the show today. Great
So Aaron you want to say hi to the Linux unplugged crew?
Welcome welcome to the show. Thank you for joining us Aaron
I want to play a little bit of this video and maybe you can take over the you can take the main position on the
Mic there while I play a little bit of this weekly update. It's called Netflix and chili
Text message is asking if you want to get something to do tonight Netflix and chili and here's Ryan
Look at Ryan getting the hugs in the video nice nice
So what do you want to watch tonight? I think I have some ideas
My
Crop Netflix and chill Oh Netflix and chill not chilly
Yeah, I guess I do actually on the brain
Yeah, you see you get the idea so the my crop device next to the TV
Starts a laser show with lasered pointers, dude. Holy crap. This is freaking awesome
Oh, this is legitimately awesome lasers all over the place and
See I got a new theater of the mind for the audio listeners
Mycroft the ultimate wingman
Mycroft just sitting there smiling
But it doesn't tell anyone about this right? Yeah fit that you don't get there's no notification. Here's my Ryan though
Here's the bloopers
Awkward
Oh
Ryan
Oh, man, I mean Ryan doesn't need game because my crops got game
No, so here's here's
Here's
What I love about this it's very legit it feels very honest and genuine that's great that is super super great
All right. So hopefully it would give you guys enough time to swap around microphones there. I was it was Aaron
Was that what it was? What's Aaron? Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. Aaron. Welcome to the show and
Were you involved in the shooting of that video there?
I wasn't involved in that shooting but I was in the drone video I guess as the sketch
I first one. Yeah. Oh very
Very nice. So Aaron, I'm looking at this update here and I'm seeing some really impressive stuff
But one thing that's not
Clear to me is like it sounds like there is some sort of official partnership with Ubuntu
Is that Ubuntu snappy is Mycroft officially using Ubuntu snappy for its base OS?
Not necessarily what
They were able to talk to Ubuntu about a partnership in regards to IOT products
They already have a relationship about the possibility of voice control via Mycroft
we're talking about the idea of how Mycroft could be loaded onto other appliances and embedded devices and
Yeah, oh
so I don't want to put words in your mouth, but things like
okay, I
Don't want to say it because I don't want to activate it but and hey
You know like there's there is a lot of devices out there, you know, you know what I'm talking about
I do. I don't want to activate people's phones, but I get you good. Maybe you do. Maybe you do. Hey, hey, Harry and
Okay
Galaga, you know are activated like these there are these there are smart devices out there or you could say devices that
pretend to be smart or devices that are
Convergent that have smart assistants like Windows 10 has Cortana iOS has Siri Google has okay
gooks and
This would be something that maybe would be missing from the Ubuntu touch platform. Is that kind of the smell you're putting out there Aaron?
exactly after meeting one of our stretch goal of having a
Mycroft work on the desktop as a launcher. I think that could be portable to many different platforms
interesting Wow, I you know
So it's basically you know
What I love about you guys Aaron is I have to be honest is
Even though you're really starting with the Mycroft hardware unit
You're not limiting the Mycroft AI or functionality to a particular hardware unit, correct?
That's correct. Thanks to our backers
Helping us meet our stretch goals. Well, that's now possible. I love it. That's that's beautiful
Could you imagine something like that built into the Linux desktop?
But something that's not just like a version of Clippy like Cortana is but something actually useful to interact with which we're gonna need in five
Years when people expect that in the desktop and or not just the your desktop is gonna be expected. Who is that?
Who's typing that? Mr. Hall again? Who's typing like crazy? Yeah, that's me again. Sorry you you working hard, huh?
What do you have? Let me guess you have your voice activation set to like ctrl or shift or something. Is that what it is?
It's
No, I love it don't go away I want you to continue like you I love you you can continue talking
Yeah, it's just I've done that myself. Yeah, so I know that one. I know that one
I love the idea though of actually creating something that is built into the Ubuntu desktop or the unity 8 desktop or unity 9 desktop
Or whatever right that is available on the phone that is available on the desktop that is available on the tablet
That is a Siri or ok googs like
Experience but a lot of open-source tech and be maybe actually more focused on integrating with other open protocols and standards
On your LAN right not so cloud focused, but maybe a little more I don't care about Hulu
Maybe I never want to watch that but maybe I wanted people to tie in the services
I already have right and there's a lot of protocols like ZigBee and others that work on your local network
That don't require you go out to a cloud service and and have you know some sort of NAT set up
And it's just it is there's a lot of appeal there. So Aaron, I've I'm kind of curious
What are your what are your long-term visions for something like this? What is what do you envision like say?
2017 2018
You look at the Ubuntu desktop. You're looking at Ubuntu phone experience
What would be your best-case scenario your dream your hope with Minecraft technology being integrated with that experience?
Well, I'd have to say that I hope that this project really goes smoothly all the way that far and that people the community
actually
Participate and create their own modules and and solutions for their own, you know
Whatever they like and since it's based on the open source platform that runs on Linux to begin with I think that
We could really have a vibrant array of applications for people to use
yeah, and and I I I obviously have been somebody who's
Maybe to maybe to a fault. I often I often worry that open source is falling behind in VR
Especially Microsoft just won an image recognition award, right? Right. We see these things and they'll be locked away in their proprietary
Augmented reality. Yes, right and another one that is cropping up around us and really here before all of these other technologies is
virtual personal assistants
You know, I have to be honest with you. I
Actually do find myself using them too
Like I wish I didn't but I have a horrible memory and if I can tell a computer the moment something comes to me
Over voice command to remember it and remind me about it
That shit is valuable
Like it is it is it is the difference between me having a great show idea and me never
Having a great show idea like I I was out Christmas shopping this weekend Sunday
I'm out shopping buying gifts for my kids and all of a sudden a great idea hits me
I'm and and and it all in in 15 minutes that idea will be gone forever
And if you were ever in the position of writing or creating content, you know, how valuable like once the idea comes to you
You think oh, it's so good. It's so good. I'll remember it again. It's like a dream. You don't ever remember like it fades
You don't you don't remember it again like 15 minutes trying to think about what it was
Yes, and like I brought around with me for a long time
I brought little pieces of paper that I could write on but I always forget the pen
17th century
So so being able to hold down a button say hey shlomo I want to remember this thing and remind me about it when I
get back to work is
Literally an invaluable tool and I I love it
So the idea of building that into the Linux desktop would make the Linux desktop even more appealing to me
So I'm pretty much really integrated with people who understand open-source who understand that
Yeah, next up users have slightly different needs. Yeah Cortana users. Yeah. Yeah
so Aaron speaking of that like what is the long-term possibilities of other open-source projects just kind of hooking in with
Mycroft and kind of working with you guys working with the back-end infrastructure specifically the back-end infrastructure and sort of the back-end processing
What what are the opportunities there? Is there much?
Yeah, there is going to be a lot of opportunity there we're going to be open open sourcing multiple elements including the adapt
Intent parser here pretty soon
Um, so basically once we get things ironed out to the point where we can release it to the community
You'll be you'll have sort of an API to communicate with whatever you'd like. Oh
That's nice. I wouldn't be I'm curious and I I look at your comment in the chatroom
What would it take for you to make Mycroft integration with the desktop more than just a gimmick not clippy 2.0 to the open-source ripoff
what does it make what would it take for it to actually be a compelling feature for a user like yourself or or
Other users and you might have in mind
Well myself. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, go ahead for one being there and I'd be curious to hear your thoughts, too
But wimpy go ahead
It's something I've been thinking about for a while now that when a technology emerges in the open-source world
That I can leverage to have that seamless voice
Commands then that is something I would definitely be looking at integrating into Ubuntu Marte because like you
I have grown accustomed to using those convenience functions on mobile devices
And I absolutely know I want that on my desktop operating system as well
Yeah, and Aaron I'm curious. What were your thoughts on it? I bet as somebody who's very connected to the project
You must have thought about this a lot
Well to be honest with you. I basically started working with
I basically started working on this same concept right before I joined the team and my idea was initially that
There's a lot of dev ops teams that use chat rooms and chat bots to you to you know monitor monitor things and give
Commands, you know, like what is the load on this, you know cluster whatever and uh, I think that this is gonna be
really
It's gonna enable that sort of thing or you know, it could turn on your coffee pot or it could tell you
It could be anything from yo mycroft. What's the load on my third web server to hey mycroft turn on the coffee pot?
Yeah, it could literally be anything because you could use
regex to
Create your own voice commands
That is so cool. Well Aaron, I invite you and of course Ryan to join us anytime any week
We do the show Tuesday 2 p.m. Pacific, right? Oh, yeah
Yeah 2 p.m. Pacific and I'd love for you to join us and share your thoughts on any open-source stories that we cover
But also just you know ping us with different interesting things
You're working on because to be honest with you
It's something that I think both Wes and I are really interested in and I too I am loving the future where I can be
Like yeah in mycroft play the next tech snap and it just shows up on my TV, right? Yes
That is the future. I mean, this is the near future. I hope so. So you have an open invitation sir to join us every single week
And that that of course extends to everybody out there
But I would love to talk with you more about this
but I do want to get into some of the groundbreaking stuff that own cloud and LibreOffice are doing that I think could
Not only be huge for education not only be huge for business and not only be huge for individuals
but hopefully you'll be huge for Jupiter broadcasting specifically and
We also have early results from our straw poll if I should go to scale or not
We're gonna talk about all of that. But first got to talk about ting. I
Love talking about ting. I do too. I tell you what Wes
There is something pretty neat about ting and it's something that you might not consider
Our viewer Tyler in the chat room. I feel bad for him
So this week Tyler's internet went out. No. Yeah, how do you listen to Jupiter broadcast? Well, this is I don't understand
This is the thing. So what he's able to do is because ting is pay for what you use, right?
No contract nor the termination. You just pay for what you use now this month
Tyler is gonna have a big ting bill. I mean it might even be like 125 bucks
I mean
it's gonna be a big ting bill because he's using a lot of data because it's the ISP basically for a family in his house and
I feel you know like oh that sucks man. And then I think about and I think you know, what's amazing about that
Two things you can do that. You can just use as much data as you need one. No throttling. No throttling. No overages
nothing scammy like that like though
11 months out of the year. He's gonna have a bill around 50 60 bucks for the entire family one month out of the year
He's gonna have a high bill. Think about how that averages out before I switched to ting. I paid a hundred and twenty-five to 140 bucks
I can't even remember where for two phones two phones like six gigs of data. It was pathetic
It was pathetic. I switched to ting my bill for three lines 40 bucks 45 bucks if it's like a holiday
It is fantastic. And here's how you can get started to go to linux.ting.com. It'll take $25 off your first month
$25 of service credit if you have a ting compatible device, which they got CDMA and you just do I mean unless
Cell phone carrier that maybe I won't talk about newsflash cell phones aren't new right? Yeah, we've Adam. Yeah years 15 years
I don't even know how long yeah
And so here the the pay for what you use model is really interesting because if you have one
Heavy month like say I go down to scale. I don't know
I haven't looked at the results yet, but say I go to the straw poll
I look at the results and they say I should you just have to go
Well, the audience is voting. I mean they decide everything are they?
Well, I mean our masters we acknowledge quite literally that is true
So here is what I figure if I got to go down to scale that week
Maybe I'll have heavier than average usage
Big frickin deal because the rest of the year I pay almost frickin nothing. It is ridiculous
This is what I love about ting is you can just be a little savvy and you really can nail this thing
I'm not trying to say you're gaming the system
But if you're just a little savvy you can really figure this out. No contract. No early termination fee
It's six dollars for the line. You got Wi-Fi. Let me tell you something
You're not gonna be paying much and they help you out
Kyra's got all of the app picks to help you like make your calls over Wi-Fi like all of those
And they got the fanatical customer support. You can call them. You talk to a real human being they got the
Unbelievable control panel that works across all of your devices
No special like active X or like flash or Java runtime required. It works on your Linux box. No problem
They also have companion apps for iOS and Android. It really is a great setup
You know, you can't say much that you can't say too much about that
Like it's one in the morning and you go buy a burner phone from a you know from Walmart and you need it to work
You go on to tings website ten minutes five minutes three minutes. I don't know but it works
I believe in January and I will have to double-check on this but I believe in January
I will be breaching breaching Wes the three-year mark of ting. No way. Yeah breaching the three. Is that the right word reaching?
Oh, yeah, I will be a little vulgar, but I like oh, okay
I think I could have been more I could have been more vulgar
I think actually cuz penetrating for the new year penetrating for the new year. I'm thrusting into that
Oh, okay. Anyways, I believe I'm going into my third year with ting and a couple of things that are big with ting since then
They got these SIM cards you can get now for nine bucks. They're on they're on Amazon
You just pop them into anything like a Raspberry Pi module to a phone and you got ting service
So it's like wow just data wherever I need it anytime GSM or CDMA. That's mind-blowing
You just check that out
But also one of the other things that has really struck me about ting over the almost three freaking years now that I've been using
ting
They continue to have a great selection of devices that are unlocked. You just buy them outright
They also have an early termination relief program great blog post all of it Linux dot ting calm Linux dot ting calm
Go check them out support this show
And you know, this might actually be a way to give somebody in your family or your small business
Connectivity without costing you an arm and a leg
Linux dot ting calm and a big thanks to ting for sponsoring Linux unplugged. Love you guys
All right, Wes. You ready for the results of this Linux?
This live here on the on the spot
unedited
Umpul, are you ready lay it on me? All right, here we go
Chris go to scale and I'm gonna refresh right now as we play it. Oh
Wow, wow, yikes
And I'm equivocal
94% say I should go to scale 6% say no, I'm curious why the people who said no. Yeah speak up
Yeah, yeah, that was me. Sorry Chris. Yeah, he doesn't want to run into you. He doesn't have to see you or talk to you
Wow, your face offends him. Yeah open to but I haven't opened two browser sessions to get two votes in
Hold on now. Hold on now. What day is this scale actually happening on? Is it on a Tuesday because if it is
We can do that makes unplugged in person. Oh
Could you imagine how much like a Thursday evening to Sunday? Yeah, Sunday's kind of quieting down usually
Well, you know what? Maybe it's Popey's opportunity to come on Linux action show because we'll be doing that on Friday. Yeah. Yeah
Maybe I could talk Noah into hosting the whole thing from OBS
I think the said the second you start with maybe I can talk Noah. Yes. He's just he's gonna do it. So
Wow
94% of the votes. I think I have to go I have to go I have to hear some idea
Look at what Jumba says in the IRC here Chris last I don't want you to go
I want Rekai, you know, and all Rekai special. How about I got this Rekai and Ang
I'll send them both down there and I'll stay here and they can Skype in and tell me how good it is
I think that's I'm I'm in I'm in support of this. There's the thing. That's not what people voted for
I actually this I should have thought about this ahead of time, but I said should Chris
Should Chris be in results are invalid. Yeah should Chris go to Chris?
Going
Yeah, I think I'm going to scale I think I'm going to scale I think that's the only way around that one
I think I got to go to scale. Holy crap
Let's talk about own cloud and LibreOffice working together everybody
it is it is like the best of both worlds today December 15th own cloud Inc and
Collabra have just announced a partnership to bring new tools for LibreOffice and own cloud users
Based on the LibreOffice online project and the robust open source own cloud server. You will have a self-hosted
Real-time doc editor based on LibreOffice. You got an ODF you got you got it. What do you got?
You got it. What do you got Rekai? What do you got Wes?
Here's the big thing
I might take away the main difference between LibreOffice online and other offerings that are available
Is that LibreOffice online uses the same rendering engine? Yeah, and that actually is you know, you know what you're gonna get
It's not different. It's not a different stack. I think that's probably as far as
I'm gonna drop this into a corporation or a school district or what's that whatever?
I mean, that's a huge thing for document users is you want yeah want to be able to make something?
But you want to be able to send it to people who can use it. Yeah, and I I look at this and I so I think
the UI
Holds up which is what I was really worried about right is the UI to me
It is so it's a little big you go into your web browser of choice and then you got you got your own cloud header
And then below that you have a LibreOffice header and then below that you have the actual document
But it is it appears to be
Pretty much everything you would expect from LibreOffice embedded in the web browser. I
Don't I don't know if that's really the issue
What I think the issue is gonna be is how good is the collaborative editing right? How real-time is the collaborative editing?
Second that's a secondary issue though because the I the concept here is a small business an open source project
An individual with you know a family whatever it is
this you could just be somebody listening to this show and
Decide I'm gonna set up an own cloud server with this LibreOffice plug-in and now the family has
Somewhere for the wife and husband or the husband and husband the wife and wife to make shopping notes, right?
I prefer exactly for groceries lists, right? You have somewhere for the kids to do their homework
Centralized spot to the homework like all this stuff that can now be shared in one family
It doesn't have to be a large enterprise
It could be but it doesn't have to be a large enterprise for this to be relevant and I find that to be really exciting
it's the technology of LibreOffice and the technology of own cloud coming together in something that
Will essentially boil down to a plug-in and I feel like it's a big boost honestly for own cloud
I think that LibreOffice brings a lot of stability a lot of
They have delivered a number of times, right? Yes, exactly and nothing against own cloud
But I feel like we've seen some instability some growing pains in the past
I I trust this a lot more than own clouds own
implementation of a
Fact that LibreOffice is willing to work with them that they're endorsing this plug-in that it's kind of you know
Maybe the future
That's a big deal
So wimpy you say that
Collabora are really bringing it these days with LibreOffice and it seems like if they truly are responding to user demand. What are your thoughts?
Well, yeah, I mean Collabora have been a great
organization for adoption of open source technologies, but just recently they've been involved in
You might remember earlier in the year or was it last year the UK government announcing they were going to support
open
Document formats rather than proprietary for don't rub it in
Yeah, that was that was followed up a month or so ago with the fact that the UK government are going to start
using Gov office
Which Collabora are working on to actually augment LibreOffice
Oh rebranded version called Gov office, which the UK government are going to be using. Thank you for that clarification
not only open
Standards and open document formats, but also the open source version just rebranded to become
So easy a way to transition people over to not to not to get lost in the nuance here
But just as somebody who didn't quite follow this
So Gov office is LibreOffice just focused on the needs of government institutions, but it's essentially the same code base
Yes, okay
Oh, there you go Gov office West is bringing it up right now. There you go
I see very mean that tagline right there if you
Professional LibreOffice for the public sector. There you go. Yeah. Okay. Thank you Wimpy
I didn't so not to interrupt but I just kind of wanted that clarification because I didn't quite follow that before
No, that's all I had to say is that you know Collabora are
LibreOffice contributors, I think they're one of the larger
LibreOffice contributors and they're really following up that
Development angle with the whole advocacy outreach and implementation
So when you look at Gov office and what they're doing with own cloud, they're they're really doing a fine job
I think so Jumba you had the big question on on probably the tip of a lot of listeners minds
Who've been listening for a while? Go ahead?
Jumba this is like the episode where I throw to the mumble room and like like half of them don't answer
Yep. Yeah, this is like this this it's like it's like a great episode except for the fact that half the time
I thought the mumble of nobody answers other than that. It's a solid episode
And so Jumba wanted to know
If this makes own cloud sort of more appealing in my view if it sort of turns my point of view you have been
Own cloud critic is too harsh and own cloud. No, I invested you know
That is a tough that is a tough thing for me because I personally know and talk to people and you're a huge supporter of
I mean almost all open source projects. Yeah, and and I have absolute respect for Frank
I see Frank all the time
I like I died I can it is a hard thing for me to criticize a project
Why literally the guy who runs the project I run into all the time?
so the thing about own cloud is I
Also have nearly lost entire episodes to own cloud where it would have it would have lost an entire
Week's worth of two people's work and if you have ever worked in a small business and know the cost of two people's work
Being completely lost
It's the other part is that you work in a job where if you make a mistake
Alan will tell you that you should have been using ZFS and right how many times can you do that a week God?
Thank you, Wes. Thank you for understanding. Thank you for you know what?
I really appreciate you taking a moment and actually truly understanding my pain. Welcome to BSD unplugged your weekly BSD talk show
That's too busy getting actual work done to care about what your silly display server. My name is Alan
You know speaking of Alan we had a really good episode of tech snap. Yes. Oh, that was a great episode
So people should check that check it out. Yeah, I okay
So this is something obviously I have struggled with quite a bit and I think you know
Thinking of a talking about Alan it's like how many times can I make that excuse right? So I am I am passionately interested in a
recognizable
trustable company
Coming in and working with own cloud and it it really makes sense with where Frank the the guy behind own cloud
The the main project lead wants to take own cloud is he wants to make it more legitimate
So he looks at all of these small businesses out there that are using
hosted solutions like Google Docs and Google apps or
Microsoft's platforms or any of the many platforms like Zimbra even our platforms out there that are hosted platforms for
Businesses and and he says, you know what with a Linux box and own cloud
You could do all that stuff and keep it on premises. Keep it on your land
Man, that is an idea. I completely am behind and so I love love love that you can take LibreOffice
You can create a document on your PC and you can know that when you open it up on the web
It's gonna render exactly like it should render on your PC. That is
Fundamentally a big issue for basic end-users. I think that's great
Wimpy, did you want to add anything else to the that to wrap this discussion?
Well, I think that you've cited file sync difficulties with own cloud and I yeah, I'd go along with that
That's what I've experienced. But yeah with the rest of own cloud
the the fundamental syncing of contacts and calendars and online collaboration that stuff works very well, so
This LibreOffice and Collabra involvement with own cloud is all very great. And
The other thing we need to look at is that Ubuntu 1 got open sourced and has been forked into a new project
And maybe 2016 we'll see that
Evolve into something that maybe own cloud could work with and integrate in order to replace their
File sync back-end. Yeah, so, you know, let's just watch this space. Yeah, I think that's it
I think that is actually a really good comment as the sync
So I want to I want to make sure I just want to make sure people understand what Wimpy is saying is I've never
Really had an issue with any of the web-based services that own cloud offers
And in fact, I continue to use own cloud for CalDAV and CardSync
Probably the best open source option for those and I do it
I don't I thought yeah, so I I really think it excels in some areas and like when I want to so, you know, like
Thanksgiving
Halloween and like doing Christmas shopping with the kids Angela and I are sharing albums albums through own cloud
It's perfect for that kind of stuff
I still today use own cloud on a digital ocean droplet to do a ton of stuff the one thing
I'm no longer using it for and what Wimpy is touching on is my my primary file sync
Right large numbers of gigabytes that kind of stuff. And I know I think on the back end
I use something called like CSync or so
I know it's based on a good solid open source syncing solution, but it's just not holding up for me Wimpy
That's a great point and and that's why I am legitimately able to a criticize own cloud for some things and be
Be excited for the integration of some things like LibreOffice in their web experience
And I just cannot wait to the day I can come on the air and say Jupiter broadcast
You no longer uses Google Docs to prepare for these shows. I hope that they also allow
External right like I hope that yeah supports stuff like well
Whatever you use to happen to get these files if you can stick a bunch of LibreOffice
Documents ODTs right on your server. Yeah, and own cloud will just read them. Let you edit them, etc
That would be perfect. Yeah. Yeah, that really would be
And you know it is getting to a point where and I I think this is real
Like there's a lot of products out there that are open source projects that get sort of put out there
That are open source projects that get sort of productized right and they don't feel like they're quite ready for end-user adoption
They're just not
Fun if you want to have a few problems you want to fix them and if you're just if you're a little educated
You know how to solve problems. You know how to do a good Google search. You don't mind a hiccup in your workflow, right?
It's good for you. Everyone is there, but yeah
So this is why I think but I think own cloud is close to technology that is actually totally ready for the end-user experience
It just needs that out-of-box experience
And this is why I'm really excited about something the own club project is announcing today
Western digital and own cloud have teamed up to bring own cloud to home users
And I think this is really neat. And what I really like about it is you don't have to be an own cloud contributor
You just have to basically have a little bit of enthusiasm and skill sets and you can get involved in this right now
Weston digital labs has teamed up and contacted own cloud to work together on an offering as a self-hosted device running own cloud
pre-installed out-of-the-box
Their end goal is to provide a solution for non-technical end-users
Something we're something that will be very easy to set up doesn't require a lot of skills
So Noah could set it up. So something somebody like Noah could set it up. Why are we being mean to Noah?
Well, he just loves Western digital. Oh
Good callback West Wow Wow, right? I mean if this will if this will support the same sort of stuff
I know I'm just playing now does I'm just impressed that you had an inner show reference that I didn't even get and I host
All the shows like why you have to keep me around. Yeah, nice nice
So a Western digital labs is working with these guys over at own cloud and they say here is the thing that is applicable to our
audience
Western digital has provided own cloud with ten early prototypes to get started with
They would like to send them out to the community members who are serious about helping home users run their own own cloud server
That's awesome. If I didn't do these shows that would I mean, man, I I honestly I wish sometimes before people ever
Presented something to consumers. They would let me look at it because I would just tear it apart
the prototypes contain all the parts to set up a small server including a Raspberry Pi 2 a
1-terabyte hard drive all the cables as well as a
fast SD card pre-installed with an own cloud image
berry boot based and
A small manual and the idea is sort of create something use it and let them know and here is what I find
Frickin fascinating about this is I think with this what this is betraying and
Maybe I'm wrong and I I mean I could be totally wrong
But I think Western digital is going to ship a product based on a Raspberry Pi
Because why send it out as a prototype if you're not gonna use essentially whatever the pie is as your base of the product
And if you're Western digital and you want to send out a Linux based product running own cloud
Why not just ship it with a Raspberry Pi?
Wouldn't that be interesting if in early January or early April we hear about a Western digital powered Raspberry Pi device
It has own cloud
That would be this
So here is the cool bits you guys
You can get it on this s you listening to the show can get in on this s
You've got until December 17th to write a proposal
Earlier is better. So do it fast. I mean I would I would really freak out do it today
But if a JB member got in on this and then they could join us in the mumble room and you would be priority
Oh, you don't have to be a well-known own cloud developer or active in the community. It's open to everybody
They're gonna pick the best proposals and send out the packages on December 19th
They're hoping to get them out before Jesus's birthday. So hurry up and by the end of January
They'll get in contact with you and work together on getting a blog about covering your results of your project
They want you to try this thing. They want you to build this thing
They want you to use this thing and they really want you to tell them why it's not gonna work for an end-user
This is where I think I could come in. Yep is they should just make you're good at criticizing things. Yes
I am and and so there you go. Oh, sorry kids and I got the birthday thing wrong. Well, it's on December 25th
They're gonna try to get them to you before December 25th. I I'm sorry
I don't follow it that closely so you guys can check it out. We'll have a link in the show notes
I think this would be great. It's exciting to see like something as big as Western Digital, you know
They're pretty big in the storage community
Yeah
Like well and chaotic mentions that the Western Digital has bought SanDisk so Western Digital and SanDisk saying that's a huge
That's a huge conglomerate. Wow. Yeah, and wouldn't you love to see them start shipping think like and contributing upstream to own cloud?
Like yeah, you can you know, you buy a couple discs. Maybe it's a little raid thing. Who knows you own clouds on it?
It manages your home infrastructure. That's great, man
Wimpy have you heard a little birdies talking about other interests that Western Digital has had with open source projects. I
May have heard that this might be the start of Western Digital
courting other open source projects and releasing other
other devices built around the Raspberry Pi 2 so what did they just all of a sudden realize the Raspberry Pi 2 was like
this awesome platform pre-built for them ready to go and what's
What what has been all of a sudden the big change here? I don't know what the big change is
I just know they've been reaching out to open source projects and finding out what the
capabilities are and pitching ideas about how they could use those projects and the Raspberry Pi 2
Combined with their storage to deliver new solutions at a low low price point. Yeah, that sounds pretty obvious
I would invite Julie over at Western Digital to email Chris at Jupiter broadcasting.com and
That's Julie Weiss and you want to speak to Julie hmm
Well, if anybody knows Julie let her know I want to talk to her because I got a few thoughts on this particular thing
It's a long-term own cloud user now. I've been using own cloud since like version 5 so
I'll hook you up. Thank you. Wimpy. That would be great. Yeah, also a special shout out to
Remy in the chat room or Remy. I always get that wrong. I'm sorry who emailed both wimpy and I about p wiki
It was that what it was wimpy?
P wick. Yeah, he wick. Thank you about with the sort of Google Analytics replacement. That is open source in nature
Mmm, the open source persuasion
So we may see that coming out to the JB site soon and you may see wimpy trying that out soon, which is pretty cool
Very cool. Yeah, it's very nice. So I
Appreciate that too. And if you have any feedback or comments Linux action show dot reddit.com. Yeah, I know I know
It's his Linux action show
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa. Whoa, that was home at town folks. I've never installed
Get it out of here. So here's the thing if you have any feedback for this show go over to Linux action show dot reddit.com
Let us know that yes, it does say Linux action show in the URL. You can blame West for that
That was my that's my bad. Yeah, I apologize West everyone years ago like a hundred and
Whoa, I just realized hold on. This show has never missed a single week
That's because we're perfect. I haven't been here that long, but I'm just gonna say what I was gonna say
124 weeks ago. Thank you, Matt
You came to me and you said I got an idea for you and I said, who are you and you said?
Don't make a separate subreddit and I said, okay, that seems like a good idea
So Linux action show at reddit comm I I honestly feel like this show is been particularly kick-ass this year
And we don't get enough engagement in the subreddit
Like we don't get the upvotes right and we don't get the comments and I'm like
Have you heard how badass this show is?
It is a super badass show and yet and it's the show where you got opinions man. Come on
Yeah, and I want to hear them
Yeah
And and also sometimes we drink beer and we get into horrible rants that we wouldn't normally get into that if we were actually sober
Wouldn't have said on air JB Rah, where else you gonna get that got the unplugged experience
So go over to Linux action show at reddit comm give us a little bit of love. Check us out. Also next week
124 I think it's the best retrospective on the network
We talked about some of the big topics we covered throughout the year for Linux unplugged and we followed up on them
Played some clips. It was good. So 124 will be coming out in the holiday week. We won't be live next week
So don't bother going to JB live TV
This is where this is the spot where I plug JB live TV and I'm like you should totally go to Jupiter broadcasting comm
Slash calendar and get in your local time zone. I'm not gonna say that though
I'm not gonna say that cuz we're not live next week because it's the holiday week
But what I am gonna say is if you subscribe to the RSS feed or you go to the Jupiter broadcasting website or you're on
Channel there's an MB channel. Yes. Anyway, really, you know you do how you do you do how you do
You're gonna get yourself a really great episode. I know you're busy next week. Let me tell you something
I think it's one of the best retrospectives JB has ever done. I really do and it's because the mumble room was there
I mean, it's not not not my doing it is the it is it is what this show has represented and
124 is a perfect example
We went into 124 knowing these are the things we're gonna talk about and we walked out with one of the best shows of the year
So I invite you to join us for 124. It is a good show and then we will be back on the final week
So do you remember when you and I did that unboxing in 124? Yes, I do
Well, it turns out
Files copying in the chat room is the one who sent me that box
No way, and I have in all of you will understand what I'm talking about when you listen to next week's episode
I have invited him to join us in the following episode to tell us about the project and what's going on
It's gonna be great. I am really excited gonna be great
So a 124 and 125 are gonna be fantastic Jupiter broadcasting comm slash calendar for live events
Linux action show that reddit comm for feedback and of course Jupiter broadcasting comm slash contact to send us email indirectly
Anything else we got to cover this week West? I think this was too big of a show already too big
We'll have links to everything we talked about in the show notes
If you want to go to ubi con or you want to find out about the own cloud
Initiative or you're curious about mycroft and their updates all of that stuff in the sub are in subreddit
Well, actually some of it does come from the subreddit, but turns out we still managed to come up with some of the stuff
On our own it's amazing and you can find links to it
Over at Jupiter broadcasting comm Jupiter broadcasting comm slash calendar and don't forget. We'll have a swag link in the show notes
Thanks so much to this week's episode of Linux unplugged. See you back here next week
Classy up in Linux
That's feels better. All right, that's nice JB tells calm everybody. Let's go boat and I will we want to talk about something in the post
Show I remember that much. Do you remember what it was West?
I believe it was a follow-up on something. We opened up in the beginning of the show. Yes, it was
Libra, yes. Oh, thank you. Yes. Okay. I know. Thank you
Cuz I know people listening were like, oh my god, are you guys are really that dumb, but it's really are the worst
Yeah, that's accepted. All right. So did I who did I cut off and who wants to pick up because I don't remember
Anybody anybody
There's all the software you'd want is free and available on no way. All right, who is it?
Yeah, old cubes OS. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Go ahead. Oh
Oh, well, you suggested that cubes might be interesting with the containers at least for the scenario
cubes
Provides you some tears wouldn't work because cubes also provides
Windows
Software on top of the cubes, right?
Then you'll be limited to something that supports the kernel you're running
Yep
That's also I'm not sure if it's implemented in any
container
Solution but what cubes does is also provide a way to identify which window comes from which?
from which
Environment. Oh, that's handy. So so Alex how long have you been running cubes?
Significantly I just researched it and I'm trying it out right now. Have you tried the windows support?
No, I
Plan to okay. Yeah, see like if the window support works really well, I could see that being a big plus for the Zen thing
It would be really interesting to see a cubes version with maybe LXC support or you know
You can run a window that's contained in Docker that said it might compromise some of the security
Obviously containers are containers and security or an evolving topic. Let's say
Yeah
What I would like to see in the future would be
something like cubes, but based on gnode and
Since gnode uses the L4 kernel. It could also use the secure L4 kernel, which is
provably secured
It was formally tested and I think that would be kind of the ultimate
security
OS
yeah, yep, I mean I wonder how that compares to like the
The library operating system trend today where you see like rump kernels and stuff being run in docker containers
Where you have your application and a library and it just runs
All right, so by the way Douglas says he loves us which is great
And I want I want to go to kits in and then wimpy
So let's I not to not to cut off but I don't want to cut this is already really long show
I kits in you've been trying out the plasma desktop. What do you think?
Yes, I did. I tried out
Plasma on fedora, which isn't five point five. It's five point four. But meanwhile, I'm running five five one, bro
But I did I did have a few
Ideas as to you know, like
What's going on here and everything? I think that
At Katie East biggest problem is every time they're doing this like rewrite like with four and five. They basically end up
basically creating the same thing just only shinier and
That's that's my biggest problem I notice a tough criticism right because
The you know
You have to acknowledge the fact that they watch the gnome project sort of hit the reset button and in the massive backlash
So in a way it I think and and and I don't disagree with you at the same time
I think you're right, but at the same time I almost feel obliged to acknowledge
the unprecedented
Task that they took on by
recreating so much of the standard
Plasma desktop KDE desktop paradigm in plasma 5 that you can actually make that criticism now
I am NOT minimizing your criticism
But what I'm trying to say is they so amazingly recreated the functionality
Productivity and workspace environment of their previous desktop that you can actually make the criticism that they didn't change enough
Unlike gnome 2 to gnome 3. Do you follow my logic there? Oh, yeah, I that's actually
My biggest complaint there is that not enough does has seemed to progress
for instance
Why is phonon which is your which is actually what's giving you your sound issues?
Why is that still a thing right now? Why don't they just directly use pulse audio instead?
Yeah, I follow you I do all right when but we got him with let's move forward
Man, wimpy you want to talk a little about how Rami hooked you up. Tell me about that
Yes, so he sent an email to both of us and said if we wanted to play with P wikis running a free server
for open source projects and I said I've got a new project in the offing and
He sorted me all out. So I've been having a play. It's really good. Really like like me
Like podcast tracking tastic good. Yeah. Yeah, this is this is it's really terrific
So I've had a little play I didn't have to set the back end up
so I'm really grateful to Remi Van Elst for sorting that out and I've just been able to tinker with the front end and
There the little bit of JavaScript that you invent in bed
Yeah, there are some tips and tricks on how you can augment that to suit your particular use case. So you can even create
Specific URLs to track
File extension types that aren't supported by the defaults and all sorts of good stuff. So oh, yeah
So you're so in other words you maybe could do potentially some podcast download tracking or ISO download tracking, right?
It's things like that like actual distro tracks stats tracking. Yeah
So I was interested in distro tracking. Yeah, sure and podcast tracking podcast trackings there by default
Distro tracking is there to some extent but like torrents for example dot torrent file. Oh, man
Almost on track of those but not the ISOs. Yeah, so by doing a little bit of research. I've been able to link
P wick into a private torrent tracker so that I can do full torrent tracking and get better
Benchmark, so I'm I'm suitably impressed. Yeah, so here's my only
Consideration. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Oh, yes big props to Remy
Thank you, Remy listened to last episode and he emailed both wimpy and I and he set up a demo for us
It was super cool
Here's my here's my only concern and this is something that we are debating internally at JB and I'm curious to hear your thoughts on it is
Sometimes we need to be able to like
Sometimes I'll say, you know 100,000 people are gonna listen to this episode, right?
And but I actually have to prove that to serve it right
Yeah
And so do you feel like people would believe these numbers or because like it's kind of important to me to be able to
Cite something that people trust
So if you show somebody Google Analytics, they believe it because it's Google Analytics
But not necessarily because of what you may have done to massage the numbers behind it
these
Statistics and then the project that I'm I'm setting up at the moment isn't live. So it isn't getting a vast amount of
traffic through the site
But the information that is being gathered is far richer and far more useful and far
Oh, really? Wow. Oh god. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That sort of seals the deal right there as into like the
Distribution that you're using on your oh, I would love to know that. Yeah. Yeah, it's really it's really great. Oh
All right, that almost there so so so the deepness of the statistics is you know
That the kind of data you can expose is much more interesting
So you are able to get genuinely important information without sort of contributing to a more broader surveillance system
Yes, because although Remy is running this he's running it for open source and free culture projects
So I'm very thankful that Remy has set this up and also for anyone listening
Remy is a first-class sysadmin who deals with reliability engineering and clustering and scalability problems
So he knows what he's doing. Yeah, he's a frequent
He's a frequent contributor to our tech SAP tech snap subreddit and has helped some he's he's contributed some great content to our tech
Snap show and also to the Ubuntu podcast and alas, too. It's a last two
He's one of his scripts has been a desktop app pick or a spotlight in the past, too
He's been really good. Yeah, and he also wrote a utility to track. Let's encrypt certificate expiry recently
Yeah, he's you know, he knows he knows his onions
Now whilst I'm relying on what Remy has set up if I wanted to take that whole package and self-host it so that I wasn't
Taking any data outside and therefore I didn't have to carry those. We're tracking you, you know cookie
Messages that you you have to do then you can do that. You can bring the whole thing in
Into your own infrastructure and do it all yourself
Yeah, and it sounds like it's actually pretty straightforward to do that too, which is yeah, and if you need an expert Remy knows what he's doing
Yeah, I think I'm gonna reconsider now it's not current it's not like I can't do it right now
But I'm thinking early next year. It might be something that we don't the roadman
but if you've if you've got one of your because you've got lots of sort of
Off-spin domains and things like that and subdomains like for example, I'm looking at
JB bot dot Jupiter colony right and mumble dot Jupiter colony comm yeah
If you were just to take a few of those and talk to Remy and just embed
Tracking references into a few of those subdomains because you can run it alongside Google Analytics, which is what I've been doing
so I've got both trackers in the code of my
New domain at the moment to sort of compare the two and getting much better information out of P WIC interesting
That's awesome more useful to me at least I would love to replace it across the board to be honest with you
Yeah, but you can you can you know have a you know, suck it and see trial
Yeah, you know in a small in a small way. Yeah, that is really thank you for letting me know
I that is that makes me pretty excited to try it
I was a little apprehensive so I'm kind of glad to get that real-world use. Yes. Yes
All right. So there you go. And you know what? I think our title should be mycroft and chili. That sounds pretty good
I mean doesn't it's great doesn't it calm the ubi con doesn't cover ubi con but it has have 21 boats
Versus 12 boats that seems like where we got to go. I may have gained that
I'm not even mentioning the third option there Chris. I see what is the third of Chris last pronounces something correctly
Yeah, I know that was a landmark event. Let's be honest here
And Chris last at scale. Oh my god. Not bad either. Oh my gosh. I can't wait to tell Ange about that